# 04_TEresults
Within this 04_TEresults folder are 3 subdirectories, one for each of the programs used to characterise TEs

- Tlex3: subdirectory containing 6 further subdirectories, one for each sample considered. Each subdirectory contains a Tresults file
- Temp2: contains 6 insertion.bed files, one for each sample considered
- PopTE2: contains 2 teinsertions files, one for each population

Note that Populations are referred to as P1 (Akaa) and P2 (Manz) in the file names, with the replicate number following immediately afterwards. For example, F3_P12_R.insertion is the result for F3 generation, Population 1 (Akaa), replicate 2 (ignore the R).

Tlex is used for identifying insertions matching those of a reference genome (see TElist_2417TEs_ISO1_nochr.txt and TEcopies_2417TEs_ISO1_nochr.txt file in the interchromate_reference directory).
Temp2 is used for identifying non-reference insertions, based on curated TE sequences (see consensuses_curated_v4.fasta in the interchromate_reference directory)
PoPoolationTE2 is used for identifying non-reference insertions, based on a (see te-hierarchy.txt in the interchromate_reference directory)

These output were generated by the several scripts. 
- InterChromaTE_TEdisco_prep-fastp.sh was used to preprocess and QC data. 
- InterChromaTE_TEdisco_Tlex3-prep.sh and InterChromaTE_TEdisco_Tlex3-run.sh were used to generate Tlex results, with replicates considered separately
- InterChromaTE_TEdisco_TEMP2.sh was used to generate Temp2 results, with replicates considered separately.
- InterChromaTE_TEdisco_PopTE2-prepRepeatMask.sh was used to mask the genome (with repeat masker), and InterChromaTE_TEdisco_PopTE2-prepReads.sh, InterChromaTE_TEdisco_PopTE2-mpileup.sh and InterChromaTE_TEdisco_PopTE2-stats.sh were used to generate reads with PoPoolationTE2, considering all replicates simultaneously. 

See https://github.com/GonzalezLab/T-lex3 for more information on Tlex3
See https://github.com/weng-lab/TEMP2 for more information on Temp2
See https://sourceforge.net/p/popoolation-te2/wiki/Home/ for more information on PoPoolationTE2

The results from the 3 software were then combined in the InterChromaTE_TEdisco_combResults_250203.sh script (see interchromate_TEconsensus directory)